Title: First reviewing experience
Date: 22-Aug-2022 23:02:09 +05:30
Category: News


With Rupesh's invitation to subreview a HiPC paper and his tips (below) started my 1st offical review.

> Think on these lines:

- **Critic**: Some technical points you could be suspicious / careful about. Point those out, mention your reason for suspicion (without calling it suspicion) and ask.
- **Audience**: Some points you are curious about. Ask those.
- **Advisor**: Some points you can suggest to be done better.
- **Collaborator**: And then some points may come from a high level thinking. 

Rajesh finished the review in 4-5 days. Feels:
>It was a different experience I thoroughly enjoyed it. But a time-consuming process. 
>..
>I had to night out to type in all or full parts -- Ideally, I should have typed in as read. 

Rupesh points

> .. as we read in document viewer highlight.. writing comments on highlighted portions as we review. 
> .. then go through it again to type out my review, which allows me to reorder the comments based on importance 
> and also to **connect** some comments which are related (e.g., a certain advantage mentioned in theory is not brought out in experiments).
> ..The review becomes more important when we are negative. It is crucial to not only highlight issues, 
> but also to suggest ways to improve the work / paper (**constructive criticism**), 
> so that the authors have a better chance of acceptance in their next submission. 
> The authors then **appreciate** the review process / conference better, and also **reciprocate** when they get to review.
